The CDMH IG aims to simplify health data research by enabling researchers to more easily access and analyze data from various sources. Currently, health data is often stored in different formats, making it challenging to combine and study. This IG addresses this issue by providing a standardized method for translating data from four common health data formats (Sentinel, PCORnet Common Data Model, Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bedside, and Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership) into the FHIR standard. The IG achieves this by defining mappings between the data elements in each format and corresponding FHIR resources, including instructions on handling specific data types like dates and medical terminologies. It leverages existing standards like US Core profiles and the Biomedical Research Integrated Domain Group (BRIDG) model as an intermediary step in the translation process. While primarily focused on observational research data rather than clinical data, the IG promotes the development of open-source tools to automate data translation and acknowledges the potential future use of FHIR as the primary intermediary model for data harmonization. This initiative complements other efforts like the Data Access Framework for Research IG, which outlines broader workflows for data extraction and querying. By facilitating easier access to and analysis of diverse health datasets, the CDMH IG can potentially accelerate research progress and improve healthcare outcomes. 
